.Dd March 19, 2026
.Dt BSJ 1
.Os macOS
.Sh NAME
.Nm bsj
.Nd encrypted nostalgic blue-screen journal for macOS terminals
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Ar command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a full-screen terminal journal for macOS with encrypted local storage,
append-only revisions, encrypted drafts, encrypted backups, encrypted sync
targets, and a menu-driven nostalgic blue-screen editor.
.Pp
Without a subcommand,
.Nm
launches the full-screen TUI editor.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "cloud recover --provider onedrive"
.It Cm open Ar YYYY-MM-DD
Launch the TUI directly on a specific date.
.It Cm export Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -format Ar text|markdown Op Fl -output Ar path
Print or write the selected entry in plain text or markdown.
.It Cm search Op Ar query Op Fl -from Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -to Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -json Op Fl -limit Ar N Op Fl -count-only Op Fl -case-sensitive Op Fl -whole-word Op Fl -context Ar N
Search unlocked journal data without creating a plaintext on-disk index, with optional machine-readable output and filtering modes.
.It Cm review Op Fl -from Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -to Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -json Op Fl -min-count Ar N
Print writing analytics summary for a date range.
.It Cm timeline Op Fl -from Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -to Ar YYYY-MM-DD Op Fl -query Ar text Op Fl -tag Ar tag Op Fl -person Ar person Op Fl -project Ar project Op Fl -mood Ar 0..9 Op Fl -has-tags Op Fl -has-people Op Fl -has-project Op Fl -weekday Ar mon,tue,... Op Fl -format Ar text|json|csv Op Fl -summary
Print a filtered timeline of entries or an aggregate summary.
.It Cm next Op Fl -from Ar YYYY-MM-DD
Launch directly on the next date without a saved revision.
.It Cm prompts Op Ar list|pick
List or pick deterministic journaling prompts, optionally as JSON.
.It Cm sync Op Fl -backend Ar folder|s3|webdav Op Fl -provider Ar google-drive|dropbox|onedrive|icloud|box Op Fl -remote Ar target
Sync encrypted revisions to a folder, S3, or WebDAV target. Provider presets auto-detect common desktop sync folders.
.It Cm cloud Ar status Op Fl -backend Ar folder|s3|webdav Op Fl -provider Ar google-drive|dropbox|onedrive|icloud|box Op Fl -remote Ar target Op Fl -json
Show cloud queue/integrity status for encrypted sync targets.
.It Cm cloud Ar recover Op Fl -backend Ar folder|s3|webdav Op Fl -provider Ar google-drive|dropbox|onedrive|icloud|box Op Fl -remote Ar target Op Fl -no-verify Op Fl -json
Pull missing encrypted blobs from cloud and re-check integrity (or skip verify with
.Fl -no-verify Ns ).
.It Cm backup
Create an encrypted snapshot under the vault backup directory.
.It Cm "backup list"
List encrypted backups under
.Pa <vault>/backups .
.It Cm "backup prune" Op Fl -apply
Preview or apply retention-based backup pruning.
.It Cm restore Ar backup Fl -into Ar directory
Restore an encrypted snapshot into a target directory.
.It Cm verify
Verify revision hashchains.
.It Cm settings Op Fl -json
Show effective settings, config paths, vault metadata status, and environment
status.
.It Cm "settings init" Op Fl -force
Create or replace the local config file.
.It Cm "settings get" Ar key
Read one supported setting value.
.It Cm "settings set" Ar key Ar value
Update one editable setting value.
.It Cm guide Op Ar docs|quickstart|troubleshooting|sync|backup|macros|terminal|privacy|setup|product|datasheet|faq|support|settings|distribution
Print docs-hub, quickstart, troubleshooting, sync, backup, macros, terminal, privacy, setup, product, datasheet, FAQ, support, settings, or distribution guidance.
.It Cm doctor Op Fl -unlock Op Fl -json
Run install, config, sync, and vault diagnostics.
.It Cm sysop Ar subcommand
Run operator-grade diagnostics and audits (dashboard, runbook, env, paths, permissions, vault-layout, orphans, revisions, drafts, conflicts, cache, backups, integrity, activity, sync-preview).
.It Cm completions Ar bash|zsh|fish
Print shell completion scripts to stdout.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -debug
Enable verbose logging to
.Pa ~/Library/Logs/bsj/bsj.log .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/Documents/BlueScreenJournal
Default vault location.
.It Pa ~/Library/Application Support/bsj/config.json
Application configuration file.
.It Pa ~/Library/Logs/bsj/bsj.log
Application log file.
.El
.Sh INSTALLATION
Turnkey public install:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Awassee/bluescreenjournal/main/install.sh | bash
.Ed
.Pp
Source install:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
./install.sh --source
.Ed
.Pp
Prebuilt release bundle install:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
./install.sh --prebuilt
.Ed
.Pp
The installer also installs shell completions for Bash, Zsh, and Fish.
.Pp
Stable GitHub Release asset names used by the bootstrap installer:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bsj-universal-apple-darwin.tar.gz
bsj-universal-apple-darwin.tar.gz.sha256
.Ed
.Pp
Universal release bundle build:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
./scripts/package-release.sh --universal
.Ed
.Sh KEY BINDINGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It F1
Help
.It F2
Save revision
.It F3
Date picker
.It F4
Find in entry
.It F5
Global search
.It F6
Replace
.It F7
Index
.It F8
Sync
.It F9
Closing Thought
.It F10
Quit
.It F11
Reveal Codes
.It F12
Lock
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pa docs/START_HERE.md ,
.Pa docs/QUICKSTART.md ,
.Pa docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md ,
.Pa docs/SYNC_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/BACKUP_RESTORE.md ,
.Pa docs/MACRO_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/TERMINAL_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/PRIVACY.md ,
.Pa docs/PRODUCT_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/DATASHEET.md ,
.Pa docs/FAQ.md ,
.Pa docs/COMPARE.md ,
.Pa docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/SETTINGS_GUIDE.md ,
.Pa docs/DISTRIBUTION.md ,
.Pa CONTRIBUTING.md ,
.Pa ROADMAP.md ,
.Pa SUPPORT.md ,
.Pa SECURITY.md
.Sh AUTHORS
Maintained in the bsj repository workspace.
